# TextHandler
Console utility for analyzing the structure of text files. It can analyze very large files and also shows the current progress of the task.

## Technical requirement in practice from the **EPAM Brest**
Read a text file (which can be large), count in it:
- the number of letters in total; the number of each letter
- number of digits; amount of numbers
- the number of words in total; the amount of each word
- number of lines
- the number of words with a hyphen
- the number of punctuation marks (.,:; '")
- longest word
Save calculations in a file named: <source file name> .json in JSON format. Moreover, the results must be sorted by number in descending order.
### Result example:
```json
{
  "filename": "test.txt", 
  "fileSize": 33215,
  "lettersCount": "5890",
  "letters": {
    "a": "2341",
    "b": "1567",
    "c": "1234"
    ...
  },
  "wordsCount": "748",
  "words": {
    "hi": "45",
    "bye": "37",
    "my": "15",
    ...
  },
  "linesCount": "123",
  "digitsCount": "234",
  "numbersCount": "34",
  "longestWord": "independently",
  "wordsWithHyphen": "15",
  "punctuation": "65",
  ...
}
```

### The main disadvantages of the group (*I solved them all*):
- Only the file named "test.txt" is always processed. You need to be able to submit any file to the input. (Pass as command line input argument)
- The output file is always "serialized.json"
- The results in the output file must be sorted in a certain way
- There is no error protection
- The text is processed several times. The optimal solution is that all calculations are done in one pass.
- First, all text is read into memory. If there is a file larger than the amount of memory, processing will not occur, the application will terminate abnormally.
- Not a problem, but as an addition: the application is built using win forms, it would be nice to convert it to a console utility (input file as a command line argument).
- Numbers and symbols are determined by falling into the intervals of character codes (in different encodings this method is not entirely correct, but for now we can close our eyes).
- JSON is generated by hand. You need to use standard serialization tools.

## Screenshots
Take a look at a few [screenshots](https://github.com/Hamsti/TextHandler/wiki/Screenshots) to get an idea of what this user interface is.

## Feedback/Bugs/Suggestions 

Please submit as a new [issue](https://github.com/Hamsti/TextHandler/issues/new), I am happy to response back.

Creator: **[@Hamsti](https://t.me/Hamsti)**
